- [Instructor] Hi and welcome back.
We are now at the @classmethod
and @staticmethod coding exercise.
This one is a bit more
of a complicated one.
We have to complete two
method implementations.
The franchise method, which
takes in a store as an argument,
and it should return a new store object
with a name equal to the argument
plus the franchise string.
And the store_details method
which also takes in a store as an argument
and it should return a string
representing the argument.
Okay, let's have a wee look
at exactly what this means.
I've given you a few examples here
of what exactly should be printed out.
Imagine we have two stores.
Store is a store with name Test
and store2 is a store with name Amazon
and in store2 we're gonna add an item,
Keyboard with a price of 160.
The franchise method is
gonna be called as the store,
the class store.franchise
and we're gonna pass in the store object
and it's going to return a store object
with name Test - Franchise.
And similarly we call it with
store2 which is called Amazon.
We're gonna return a store object
with name Amazon - Franchise.
So notice it's not going to return
the string Amazon - Franchise.
It's going to return a store object
with name Amazon - Franchise.
And the store_details is
gonna be called with a store
so store test
and is going to return
Test, the name of the store,
comma, total stock price is zero.
And similarly if we call it
with store2 which has an item
it's gonna be Amazon,
total stock price is 160.
Okay?
When completing the store_details method
you may need to convert the output
of store.stock_price to an integer
and you can do this like so,
int(Store.stock_price).
Let's have a look at this coding exercise.
First thing to do is to remind ourselves
of exactly what these existing methods do
and what the store objects are like.
So we've got an init method
that tells us the store
object has two properties:
self.name and self.items.
We can add an item which simply
appends to this empty list
a dictionary with name and price.
And then we have stock_price
which returns the total value
of all the items in stock in this store
as you can see.
And then we have our two methods
that we have to implement ourselves:
the franchise method and
the store_details method.
The franchise method has
to return another store
with the same name as the argument
plus the string " - Franchise."
So let's do that.
How do we create a store object?
Well we can say something
like new_store = Store
and here we have to give it a name
because if you remember, the
init method takes in a name
so we have to give the store this name
and we know from the instructions
that the store's name that we return
has to be the same name as the argument
so store.name
plus this "- Franchise" thing here
so " - Franchise."
Notice that there is a
space before the dash
and there's a space after the dash
so we have to make sure to
have those there as well.
This is very important
or else the code checker
won't be able to deduce
that you have the right name.
Okay now that we have created the store
we can return it.
Return new_store.
That's our variable there.
Of course we could just
skip the variable entirely,
return the store.
This is totally fine, same thing.
Because this is a class method
we have this cls argument here
and cls is a reference to the class.
That's Store by the way.
So cls is the same thing as Store
so for the sake of learning
we can just replace them
and that means exactly the same thing.
Let's move on to the store_details.
This only has to return a string
representing the argument.
Store is a store object
and it has to be something in the format
"NAME, total stock price: TOTAL."
So I'm gonna copy that
and what I'm gonna do is return this
.format(store.name,
int(store.stock_price())).
Now we have to replace
name for the curly braces
and total for the curly braces as well.
Here's what's happening here
I went a bit quickly there.
We've got our format string
which has two sets of curly braces
and we're gonna go and put
store.name in the first one
and store.stock_price,
this is the method that is defined here,
convert it to an integer,
and put it in the second place there.
There are many other ways
that you could do this.
You could add the values
together and so on and so forth
but, nevertheless, this is the way I do it
so that's why I'm showing it to you here.
Let's check our solution
and as you can see that is all correct.
We've looked at the cls keyword
and we've implemented the franchise method
to return a new store with a given name
and we've also looked at
the store_details method
which returns a string representation
of some store data.
So that's everything for this video
and I'll see you on the next one.